Design Philosophy and guideline.txt

» Guidlines: 
+ __init__ methods should never raise NotImplmentedErrro 
+ I don't wanna bother too much with type hinting, only use it where it's easy. 
+ The code simple must remain simple, I don't want to deal with exception and error handling.., and also makes the translate of code to anothr library easy.

This document, represents my thought and ideas during the process of thinking about the implementation of NN framework from scratch using only Numpy, even though I have access to other people code, who have done the same thing before, but it's still hard, I am sure part of this is because this is the first time I've decided to work on something kind bigger than what I used to, which are basically just a single file scripts. So "It will get easier". 
Another reason for why this is still hard, is because is just me overthinking it trying to account for many situations... Seriously creating a framework is hard, especially if you are a beginner.

» Challenges: 😶 The biggest challenge is not just how to implement operations, but how to organize the code, such that the implementation won't come back to bite you later down the line.

» TIPs: 
+ Use method instead of function call whenever possible for faster computation.

» Helper function: As it's always the case you're going to need helper functions, 

» Design philosophy:
🥇 Modularity: everything should be modular and independent, this goes for layers, activation functions, losses, optimizers...

» Main Components:
• Network: A container for the layers, takes in: optimzers, losse
• Layers: The building block for NN.
• Losses: for measuring the error.
• Optimzers: Responsible for updating layers paramters.

🏆 Layers: are the main building block of any NN framework, this one is no exception, everything is treated as layer, whether it's concrete NN layer (Dense/Conv2D/Pool...), utility layer (Dropout/Reshape) or Activation Function (The non-linearity part of the NN layer). 

• NN concrete layers should be simple, they should only perform basic linear operations, the activation layer is the part responsible for the non-linearity during the forward pass. 
Each NN concrete layer, must define two fundamental methods:
    forward : Take an input perform linear part returns output
    backward: Take the Accumulated Gradient (AG) from next layer, calculate the gradient w.r.t its weight and biases and passes them to the optimizer.
    return accumulated gradient (aka error). 

• Activation function: are treated as layer. They are responsible for:
    + The non-linearity during the backward pass
    + Calculate the accumulated gradient during the backward pass.

• Weights: Doesn't matter how they are represented, you're going to perform the transpose during the backward pass anyway. I Like Micheal's implementation, basically rows represent nodes in the current layer.

• The optimization part is performed by the optimizer (updating the net parameters )


» Naming convention:
all names are underscore separated.
    losses: 
    Activations: mse/mse_prime, cross_entropy/cross_entropy_prime/
    p: y_pred : predicted/probability
    y: y_truth: target 

    input_size
    output_size
    layers_name